Turn validation warnings from `DefaultTypeAnnotationMetadataStore` into errors (#16276)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/troubleshooting/validation_problems.adoc

[[mutable_type_with_setter]]
== Mutable type with setter

This error indicates that a property of "mutable" type is also providing a setter.
Mutable types in Gradle include link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/provider/Property.html[Property] or link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/file/ConfigurableFileCollection.html[ConfigurableFileCollection].

For example, you wrote:

```groovy
class MyTask extends DefaultTask {
    private Property<Integer> x

    @Input
    Property<Integer> getX() { this.x }

    void setX(Property<Integer> x) { this.x = x }
}
```

However, mutable types like `Property` are designed to track dependencies and origin of values they are supplied with.
As a consequence, it is an error to make them overwritable, because Gradle will then be unable to tell where a property value comes from.

To fix this problem, you should either make your property final and remove the setter:

```groovy
class MyTask extends DefaultTask {
    @Input
    final Property<Integer> getX() = ...
```

or rely on Gradle's built-in capacity to inject final properties:

```groovy
abstract class MyTask {
    abstract Property<Integer> getX()
}
```

> then the value of the properties need to be configured via the mutation methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the value of the properties need to be configured via the mutation methods:
```

I wonder if the `or` just above should also be uppercase.

```groovy
myTask {
    x.set(123)
}
```

[[redundant_getters]]
== Redundant getters

This error indicates that a `boolean` property has both a `get` and an `is` getter method.
This is a problem because both getters can be annotated differently and Gradle cannot know which ones to use.

> The solution to this problem is to get rid of one of the getters.

Reviewer: I think you can also annotate one of the getters with `@Internal`, though I am not 100% sure. Do we have tests for doing so?

Author: I don't know.

Reviewer: Looks like we do: https://github.com/gradle/gradle/blob/451b05c9a65353f519af77a6b85bb978bc5b5545/subprojects/model-core/src/test/groovy/org/gradle/internal/reflect/annotations/impl/DefaultTypeAnnotationMetadataStoreTest.groovy#L222-L228

Can you add this as a solution here?

Author: I will!

[[private_getter_must_not_be_annotated]]
== Annotations on private getters

This error indicates that you have annotated a _private_ getter with an input or output annotation.

> Gradle doesn't use private getters as inputs for up-to-date checking, which means that your effectively are basically ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gradle doesn't consider private getters as inputs for up-to-date checking, which means that your annotations effectively are ignored.
```

It is important to fix because you might think that you have declared an input when it's not the case.

To fix this, either make the getter public, or annotate an existing getter instead, or create a new annotated getter.

[[ignored_property_must_not_be_annotated]]
== Annotations on ignored properties

This error indicates that you have a property which is annotated with an annotation which tells Gradle to ignore it (for example link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/model/ReplacedBy.html[`@ReplacedBy`]) but is also annotated with an input annotation (for example link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/tasks/InputFile.html[`@InputFile`]).

This is an error because Gradle cannot determine if the property should actually be used for up-to-date checking, that is to say if it's actually an input or not.

To fix this, you must either:

> - remove the input annotations from the property or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- remove the input annotations from the property, or
```

> - remove the ignoring annotation from the property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- remove the ignoring annotation from the property.
```

[[conflicting_annotations]]
== Conflicting annotations

This error indicates that a property is annotated with conflicting annotations, that is to say annotations which have different, irreconciliable semantics.

> For example, a property cannot be annotated both with `@InputFile` and `@InputArtifact` at the same time.

Reviewer: I think `@InputFile` and `@OutputFile` is better, since most folks don't know about `@InputArtifact`.

> To fix this problem, you need to verify what are the semantics of the annotations and select one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix this problem, you need to understand the semantics of the different annotations and select one.
```
